# David's Expense Tracker.

# Problem Summary
Life can have many expenses, and it can be increadbly hard to track all of them and see where your costs are, making budgeting increadbly difficult. To address this issue, my expense tracking application allows users to record all their expenses and track them. This allows the user to keep track of their expenses and also see their expenses for a period of time or category, which allows users to see and understand their expenses, which allows for better finance tracking and budgeting.

# Technical Stack
## Frontend
- React
- TypeScript
- CSS

## Backend
- Fastify
- NodeJS
- TypeScript

## Database
- Postgres

# Features
- Dynamic Filtering
- Applied fiters (if there are any) are remembered and applied when loading or refreshing the page
- Responsive Page Design
- Easy to navigate and use

# Folder Structure
In the root I have split my project into 3 seperate folders which are Frontend, Backend and Common. 

In my root I have installed common node packages, so that I was able to use them in both my frontend and backend code without having to install them twice.

## Frontend
In this folder I have put all the frontend related code and packages. The root of this folder contains all my package and config files generated by vite and npm along with a `.env` to specify the route. The subfolder `src` contains the main page code, logic and styling for my frontend. the `components` sub-folder contains all the components I have made for the expense tracker.

## Common
In this folder I have put the type defintion for expense which both my frontend and backend require. So by putting the type defintion in there I was able to ensure that the expense type definition for both my frontend and backend was consistent no matter what.

## Backend
In this folder I ahve put all of the backend related code and packages. Similar to the frontend the root of this folder contains all of the config and package files. While in the `src` subfolder I have put the main code/type defintions along with a `.env` file which is used to specify the connection details for the postgresql database.

# Challenges
One of my biggest challanges was refactoring the applicaion from a DOM manipulation model via pure JS and HTML to React. The way I overcame this was taking all of the existing logic and transforming it into react using the labs as an example of what I should do for certain situations. 

Another big challange for me was learning the stack I decided to use. As I have never created a project from the ground up with this technical stack. To overcome this I spent time researching and testing the technologies I was unfamilar with, which allowed me to gain an understanding of what I needed to do and why. This then enabled me to use these new understandings to implement those features/technologies into my project while also learning why I needed them.